in today's episode of health theory with
drew manning we discuss drew's journey
of gaining and losing 75 pounds on
purpose why mindset is critical for
physical transformation how to be
vulnerable and why you should be open to
experimenting with your diet
hey everybody welcome to health theory
today's guest is drew manning the new
york times best-selling author of fit to
fat to fit he slathered on 75 pounds of
fat and lost it again to gain empathy
and understanding for his training
clients and to prove to himself if no
one else that his theories on diet and
exercise were actually correct the
adventure not only changed him it landed
him his own tv show and made him one of
the most recognizable people in fitness
what i want to know man is what
surprised you about that journey
it's a good question it was how much of
that transformation was more mental
emotional than just physical because i
went into this journey thinking oh you
know i'm going to get fat and then i'm
going to get fit and it's going to be a
physical thing but
i came out of it realizing that
transformation is so much more mental
and emotional than people think and if
you've never been overweight
mostly what you can relate to is the
physical side of weight loss right eat
less and work out you know that right
you got that you've lived that but the
mental emotional side you haven't lived
that until you've kind of been down this
path and so for me my eyes were opened i
realized just how wrong i was with
trying to help people right and did you
mean your strategies were actually bad
because you didn't understand they
weren't bad they were just incomplete
they were just focused on the physical
so if someone was struggling with their
transformation i'm like okay let's
change up your macros change up your
calories change up your workouts that's
the missing component right that's what
i i focus on because that's all i knew
rather than trying to help them on the
mental emotional side which is what
people struggle with right i think
people it's not so much a lack of
knowledge right
people know they need to eat healthy and
work out it's it's the application on
the mental emotional side and the
consistency of living that lifestyle
over over time and that's where people
struggle is is maintaining as a
lifestyle change which is more up here
than it is in the gym or in the kitchen
so i want to really define what you mean
by mental and emotional okay so what is
it that people are struggling with an
attachment to food the emotional reward
of eating like what is it yeah and it's
different for each person the thing that
i realized was was how powerful the
emotional connection to food really is
whereas before i'm like look it's not
that hard you just you know stop eating
the junk food put down the soda you go
to the gym every day what's wrong like
it's not that hard
until i lift it even even though it was
only for just six months
when i switched and tried to lose the
weight that emotional connection to food
was way more powerful even for me as a
trainer someone who lived their whole
life healthy and my body went through
those withdrawal symptoms right almost
like a drug addict i won't say i was
addicted some people are truly addicted
but for me
just being aware of how powerful that
emotional connection to food really is
what do you do when you have cravings or
you know when you when you eat your
emotions when you're sad or you're happy
we celebrate or we had a stressful day
so we're like you know what i deserve
wine and chocolate tonight because i had
a stressful day
so how do you help people through that
so i grew up in a morbidly obese family
so i know exactly how people can
find comfort and or celebration in food
how do you help them
dive into that like do you get like
psychological and and actually almost
like a therapist walk them through that
stuff so there's obviously a physical
component of transformation so that you
help them with the physical side but i
think you know it's like 10 percent that
90 help them with the mental and
emotional side and how i do that is
putting them in support groups right so
it's not just me because i'm still a fit
guy it's putting them in a support group
where they it's a safe place for them to
share their struggles their successes
their failures
and receive that encouragement and the
empathy that love and that people
letting them know that they're worth it
to continue to fight for their health so
in researching you and coming across
this whole notion of self-love and
self-worth it's so interesting to me how
caught up in all of this that is how
often do you see where somebody's really
struggling with with that like there's
almost a conflict of i'm not worth
pushing through and getting to my goal i
think that's the majority of people that
struggle with their health some people
really don't feel like they're worthy
and how do you
convince someone that they are worthy i
still don't know it's it's still up to
them it has to be their idea i can't
tell someone they're beautiful
they have to truly believe that they're
beautiful they have to truly believe
that they're worth it
it's you know hope that by telling them
and putting them in a group where other
people are telling them as well
that they will find that inner
motivation and inspiration and kind of
like you know inception to come up with
that idea of themself like maybe i am
worthy maybe you know i can do hard
things the health and fitness industry
in my opinion
hasn't used this fully yet and that's
kind of what my hope is with fit to
fight fit is to use empathy as a tool
because i feel like empathy can bridge
that gap between people that feel like
they're stuck and they feel judged by
society and they feel judged and and
looked down upon by people who are
skinny and naturally fit people are
going to be more willing to listen to
you know their trainer or coach if that
person has that empathy and can really
come down to their level walk in their
shoes a little bit and really understand
where they're coming from and then
they'll be more willing to listen to the
advice that you have and the physical
tools or hacks that you have to help
them along their their journey you said
something really interesting
you said maybe i am
worthy maybe i can do the hard things do
you think there's some tie between
a willingness or uh
having the stick-to-itiveness to
actually do the hard things
is that tied to a sense of self-worth
like do you think that those two feed
each other
yeah i think they do feed each other i
don't know which one comes first i think
it's different for each person um
but i think you know if someone for
example like is on a physical
transformation they're trying to get
healthy
if they
have these small wins in their life
right like i did my first burpee or i
did my first push-up or pull-up or you
know i ate healthy for a whole day um
these senses these small things of
accomplishment help build that
confidence of maybe i can do hard things
i recently had this guy from nashville
come out
to work with me
you know he started out 600 pounds he's
been doing keto intermittent fasting is
down to 450 pounds and the thing that
gravitated him to me and my brand was
the the whole empathy thing and
understanding where he's coming from um
because he felt judged by by other
people and so he's like drew only want
to work with you we took him to this
place called jim jones in salt lake city
and they've trained the cast of 300 and
they train um superman um and so these
celebrities and i'm like okay we're
going here and he was like scared to
death he's like dude you're trying to
kill me i'm like no i'm not gonna kill
you like i understand that we're gonna
start out slow but um you know i had him
do modifications to the things that we
were doing in the workout and
it was hard for him but at the end of
the day they drew like he started crying
he's like drew like this was the best
thing for me like being able to do you
know ball slams like you guys and be
able to do like modified push-ups he's
like i haven't moved my body in in years
and
i think
after he came out here like he was super
confident and and i had him say these
positive affirmations to himself like i
can't do hard things as he's doing the
workout i can do hard things as he's
doing farmers carries and wanted to give
up but he pushed harder and if i can get
him to believe that he can do hard
things even though it's small at first
then it's going to help motivate him and
push him you know when he tries to do
something that's like oh that's
impossible there's no way i could do
that but now he's like maybe i can do
that
dude let's talk about hard things i love
that so much and yeah like i'm
absolutely obsessed with the notion of
earning credibility with yourself yeah
where you say you're gonna do something
you do it you push yourself to do
something that's difficult and you stick
with it and i think i don't know that
i've ever really put a super fine point
on what
what is the birthplace of self-worth but
if you were gonna force me to do it yeah
doing hard things is almost certainly
like the most foundational it's probably
not the sum total yeah but the
willingness to stick through it and
actually do the hard things is almost
certainly like the core of that so how
do you somebody that isn't coming and
they're not working with you and you
have to do it remotely
what would you prescribe to them to do
to show them that they can do the hard
things to begin building that self-worth
yeah put out these mini challenges
throughout the month like okay you guys
this month we're going to focus
sometimes as a physical thing but other
times it's like hey guys for 30 days i
want to challenge you to do
maybe three to five positive
affirmations every single day and all
you're saying to yourself is i can do
hard things or
i am worthy or i love myself and i'm
proud of who i am it's not a direct
um you know cause of weight loss but if
you can
set yourself up for this win that's
gonna help you set set that's gonna help
set you up for these other wins down the
road when it comes to the workout you're
gonna do this month or sticking with
whatever diet you're trying to do for
that month because then you realize man
i can do hard things even if you don't
believe it at first and that's the thing
people really don't believe positive
affirmations at first because they've
had 30 40 years of negative self-talk
and now you're trying to tell them you
know just say these things out loud to
yourself words have power and they can
actually change your beliefs and they
can actually change you at the cellular
level the more you say them consistently
so i think there's something to saying
positive words
about yourself to yourself every single
day and so that's that's one thing that
i do in these private facebook groups to
build that confidence and and uh
convince that person that they can do
hard things
dude so i'm obviously way into self-talk
the narrative that you tell yourself
about yourself
what do you tell people when they're
like but i don't believe it and so is is
it just well repeating it is the key
here and so it's part of the process of
beginning to believe or
do you have something else to help
somebody get over that notion of you're
asking me to say something that i
fundamentally think is false yeah and i
i think for some people it does work
where the more consistent they say it
out loud to themselves they do
eventually believe it because honestly
that was my testimonial i've been
through this in a different way not from
a physical transformation but self-worth
negative self-talk for me saying it out
loud
helped me believe it if i remember the
first time i said a positive affirmation
i had goosebumps and i almost started
crying like and um
for me like a tough dude it was weird um
so for me just kind of telling you my
own testimony of this it's changed my
life 100
saying positive words can help set you
up for positive wins throughout the day
in other areas of your life
so i want to go to your journey with
self-talk so episode 100 of your podcast
beyond amazing by the way absolutely
incredible and obviously speaks to your
tattoo that vulnerability is strength
yeah um
talk to me about that like how did that
become such an important thing for you
um what was episode 100 why did you do
it i mean like a lot of questions around
that 100 first of all thank you for
listening to i really appreciate that
that means a lot to me um i was because
i was scared to death to post that so my
whole life about the culture i grew up
in from religion to sports to my family
was
you know um vulnerability is a weakness
you don't talk about your feelings and
that was just the way i grew up you know
sports football wrestling you know you
don't make excuses you just do it and if
you make a mistake there's a punishment
and same thing with the religion i grew
up in you know if you weren't perfect
and you send then there was some type of
punishment to where i felt shamed i felt
guilt and so my whole life for 30 plus
years was surrounded by guilt and shame
because here i was trying to be perfect
on the outside for everybody for my
parents my church leaders my coaches my
my spouse at the time
when in reality i knew that i was a
fraud i had weaknesses and i wasn't
perfect and but i couldn't deal with
that from a very young age
i would hide it because i'm like you
know what it's better just to pretend
and fake it rather than
um
you know the disappointment
um and uh having that punishment in my
life and so from a very young age i
developed that habit of you know what
it's not worth confessing or talking
about it because then
you know everybody knows and the guilt
and the shame just consumed me and
eventually broke me to where i
just lived the life of
lies and it was inauthentic
and eventually broke me as a man and
that was the
that was the start of me starting to
transform and change my perspective of
how i viewed myself
once i learned how to love myself and
realizing that shame has so much more
power over you when you don't talk about
it the things that bring you shame
and so for me
having that courage to talk about things
that were embarrassing you know growing
up or that brought me shame i realized
that it's not as scary as i thought in
my head i would create these stories in
my head of how scary it would be if
people found out the real me
but once i owned my story and embraced
vulnerability as a strength
change my life i can authentically be me
for the first time in my life i feel
like i'm finally living but it took me
34 years to figure this out and i wish i
would have figured this out at a young
age but i had no one there to teach me i
had to learn from making mistakes so for
me with everything that happened from
you know pornography and affair and all
these things that are looked at as bad
i'm 100 grateful for why because it
changed who i am and i can finally live
an authentic life and i own my story i
have no embarrassment or guilt or shame
like talking about it doesn't make me
feel uncomfortable it doesn't embarrass
me anymore and my hope is that other
people that have that are in that
situation or have been through that
situation have that hope and can find
that courage within to
embrace vulnerability and own your story
because life's short man and i wish i
would have learned this at a younger age
so that i didn't have to go through all
that that heartache how do you love
yourself where you are when you're
you're ashamed or you feel guilty like
how do you find that connection to the
love yeah that's a great question i
think what it stems from is expectations
on life like we have expectations of if
i do this then i will be i will be this
and rather than faking it and pretending
like it didn't happen or not talking
about it um
embrace the entire story and realize
that everything happens for your greater
good like this happened like this
pornography addiction or this affair
happened so you can grow from this to
become who you're supposed to be and i
couldn't learn that from religion i had
i couldn't learn that from you know the
culture i grew up and i had to learn
from other people like being open to
other people and their philosophies and
theories like brene brown's books and uh
byron katie and so many other books like
the four agreements the fifth agreement
totally changed my perspective how i
view life and how i view me right and i
realized i suffered in life because of
how i viewed myself i saw myself as a
failure because of these you know
weaknesses or sins that i had
and
because of that
i did failure-like things because i saw
myself as a failure and
if i had learned that at an earlier age
to love myself
i feel like all my other relationships
would have been so much better and i
feel like
every relationship in your life stems
from how you view yourself everything is
a mirror of how you view yourself the
way you treat your spouse your kids your
loved ones and a complete stranger
starts with how you view yourself
really powerful man and um what you
ended episode 100 it was really powerful
and it hit me like i actually got
emotional when you said it and you it
was like the wrap up and so you're just
kind of throwing off comments but there
was one thing you said and i really felt
it and it was like basically i hope you
guys are cool with me sharing all of
this how you feel about it it's really
not my business anyway that's your
business and you'd already talked about
that whole thing and you said you know
i'm just trying to love myself and to be
worthy of love
and like that one really stopped me in
my tracks and i just thought
wow like that's so powerful to have as
sort of a guiding force in your life
what does that look like
for you to to be worthy of love yeah
that's a great question and to be
totally honest with you i think that's
something that kind of like fitness
i always have to work on right um
because i'm not perfect you know even
all the work that i've done has got me
to a better place but i still
you know sometimes struggle with that um
that that you know feeling worthy of
love so it's something you constantly
have to work on like health and fitness
and nutrition like it's not like there's
a finish line you're done boom no matter
what happens in life you'll be good um
it's something that i constantly have to
work on to remind myself so things like
meditation every day on a daily basis
saying positive affirmations even still
because i've noticed there's times in my
life where i get busy with work and i
don't do them and i notice a big
difference and i start to believe those
old those old thoughts come back and so
if you don't put in the work every day
just like exercise
you you lose that um that positive
self-talk and then negative self-talk
will always be there i feel like and so
it's a constant battle it's interesting
because there's so many parallels to
fitness and the mindset and when you
were talking about you know when you
gained all the weight that you just
didn't have the energy and you didn't
want to work out for the first time in
your life you didn't want to work out
and to parallel that to the same thing
going on mentally where if you're not
staying on top of it all of a sudden
something that you can sort of take for
granted this desire to feel good feeling
positive about yourself believing
positive things about yourself that also
begins to to atrophy just like a muscle
yeah back then i focused so much on the
physical aspect of weight loss or just
transformation in general but now i've
been doing this for years i realized
like that's what we're missing in the
health and fitness industry is
it's not just physical right the mental
the emotional and even spiritual side
are all paralleled and like it has to be
a complete transformation otherwise it's
just going to be a diet that people do
for 30 or 60 days but if they can work
on the mental emotional spiritual while
they're working on the physical that's
where i feel like people will really
truly be fulfilled because they realize
that it's not just about being skinny or
having a six-pack that brings them
fulfillment right like tony robbins says
success without fulfillment ultimate
failure so you could have the perfect
body but so many people with perfect
bodies are miserable inside and they
hate themselves still why because they
don't take care of the mental emotional
and spiritual and they have to all be
taken care of otherwise they'll atrophy
like you said and you'll you'll be
you'll find out that your life is is out
of balance in a way
and so what does that look like so we
all know sort of what good diet and
exercise looks like yeah what is so you
mentioned daily affirmations
positive affirmations what are some
other things that you would have people
do as sort of a a part of just like your
regular routine uh
daily gratitude list and what i mean by
that is is looking around you and being
grateful for what you have now rather
than like oh i'll be happy when i reach
my first million dollars i'll be happy
when um you know this or that happens in
business i think a lot of people do it
wrong though they you know just like
with physical transformation they're
like i'll be happy when i meet this goal
and then i'll celebrate i think that's
where people struggle when people suffer
because they get unhappy because they're
not there yet right and then they get
there and they're like
well that wasn't it what is it now like
they're looking for something else some
kind of outside source of happiness when
in reality you can create it inside you
know you can choose to do it it's hard
it takes rewiring your brain it doesn't
happen overnight but um i promise you
that you know if you can do things like
a great daily gratitude list every
single day that's going to uh help you
be fulfilled in the here and now while
you're working on a better version of
yourself how important is reading this
for you
it's changed my life man and like all
i'll be honest with you i grew up a
total meathead you know like
i did not read books you know i didn't i
just was like oh movies and tv shows are
way better um once i
and that's when you know the whole
divorce thing happened and i was like i
had time to myself at you know when i
didn't have my kids i'm like what am i
going to do with my life you know i'm
going to sit up and watch game of
thrones like at night the rest of my
life or it's cool tv show but and
actually did that for a while
that's why i mentioned that but then i
was like you know i'm just going to read
some books and then that's where my life
coach had me read loving what it is and
then
someone had told me about this book
called daring greatly and i'm like okay
i'll read it and then my eyes were open
and my perspective was changed and i
feel like you are
the combination of the books you read
the podcast you listen to the people you
surround yourself with and then i
realized man there's so much more
information out there that i didn't have
access to until i started reading books
what was it about brene brown's daring
greatly that really resonated for you it
was the guilt and the shame living a
life of of surrounded by guilt and shame
and
her showing me like the light at the end
end of the tunnel of how to get out of
it
really gave me hope and
courage to
own my story and talk about it and
that's you know even when i read her
book
you know before episode 100 happened
which is where i went public with my
story that was about
two years of reading her book
over and over again it wasn't like
overnight like boom i'm gonna i'm gonna
tell everybody about this it took me a
while to get to a place where i was okay
emotionally and spiritually to share my
story it wasn't just like
i think brene talks about this uh
there's a difference between oversharing
and being vulnerable right and i feel
like the difference for me was
being ready like being true to who you
are when that message comes out right
and what your your intentions are what
your hope is with it rather than just
like vomiting everything for everyone
and and really not giving people any
direction of like what to do with it or
like that's a great story but you know
like you know how did you grow or what
are the key takeaways i think you know
the life coach and the books that i've
read have really taught me
how much of our stories that we create
in our head aren't true
and just breaking that cycle of the
stories that i've told myself my entire
life
i can let go of because i know they're
not true because i've kind of tested
those waters and
you know i can't remember who said it
but we suffer a thousand times more in
their head than we do in reality
yeah okay now that we've
figured out what a huge part of this
whole journey it is the mental and
emotional connection to food
you've remained in extraordinary shape
you've had a lot of really successful
transformations what are your
recommendations in terms of diet and
exercise for somebody who's ready
they've gotten sort of mentally prepped
they're ready to go down the actual sort
of mechanistic part of this journey yeah
that's a great question so
my goal is to help people become their
own self-experimentation right so i'm a
huge fan of the ketogenic diet right on
the dr oz show talking about the
benefits of keto and i fell in love with
it to be honest with you
but it might not be for everybody and
but what i tell people is
be open to experimenting whether it's a
plant-based diet or paleo or keto or
whatever it is be open to some kind of
experimentation with your body because
it's not a one-size-fits-all approach i
can't just give you a diet of 2000
calories that's 70 fat 25 protein 5
percent carbs and boom it'll magically
work for you um just realizing that you
know what works for me or you or someone
else might not work for you that's
totally fine let's go let's find
something else that works for you so
um helping people realize that it's a
it's a journey not a destination it's
not a race to the finish line right it's
not like how much weight can i lose in
the short amount of time with the least
amount of effort you know just realize
that this is a lifestyle it's going to
take time and but being open to changing
things upgrading evolving as you are on
your journey
let me ask you secretive secret
questions okay gotcha do you think
though that everybody should try keto
try
i think so why because i feel like for
most people if they can experience the
mental clarity the improvement cognitive
function just that alone will change
people's lives and so for me
i think
yes there could be a weight loss and a
fat loss
component of it but for me the biggest
thing with keto is shifting from
running off glucose to running off
ketones just for your brain like
nutrition for your brain
is probably the most remarkable thing
being able to go from eating six seven
meals a day to eating once or twice a
day and feeling optimal or going seven
days without food and still functioning
as a parent as you know running your
business like traveling i've done that
and it's amazing because i was told that
you can't do that otherwise you'll lose
all your muscle mass but
for me i think it's worth experimenting
with just for
how your brain can improve
there's a million ways to lose fat right
for sure and i think both you and i so i
used to be about 60 pounds heavier i
lost all my fat rapid starvation right
it was yeah total misery i hated every
single minute of it but it worked i'm
guessing it doesn't work um but my thing
is and i find this so interesting about
keto i think you're right it's an n of
one everybody needs to do
self-experimentation you've got to try
it because
it
it's the one dietary thing i'll say
changed my life completely from just
being in a constant state of
inflammation to then like that sense of
your inflammation drops to essentially
zero your relationship to hunger changes
um you know i agree with you i think
that there is so much individual
variability everybody has to try it but
keto is the one thing i'll say everybody
should try it yeah whether it works for
them or not i can't say yeah and i feel
like you know our bodies were designed
to do that for a reason we have this
backup system you know or whatever you
want to call it known as ketosis for a
reason right like it's how our species
evolved right uh if we didn't have uh
you know the ketogenic state we probably
would have died off as a species right
because we went we had to go times
without food right there's feasts and
famine and it wasn't until like maybe
100 or 200 years ago where we had access
to food on demand pretty much we could
go to grocery stores or there was always
an abundance of food and and because
we've grown up in that we've kind of
like well we have to eat three square
meals a day you know that's what we're
taught and it's like no you can go a
long period of time without food
actually and still function and and
thrive actually it is so powerful and so
transformative and changes your
relationship to hunger and all that um
and for me probably the most important
thing was just the aches and pains that
went away yeah which is a really big
deal let's talk about fasting yeah i
read a book by dr jason fung called the
complete guide to fasting and i learned
about more about the science behind it
but i think fasting has a there's a
physical component there's a mental
component and a spiritual component
right
physically we know that's great for
anti-aging longevity
anti-cancer better digestion
cell regeneration in your body that's
the physical component yeah some people
do it for weight loss which i do not do
it for there's a mental component too
knowing that you can go
a day two three however long without
food and live and actually thrive just
realizing that you don't have to be
asleep to food
you can be in control of your body
is is um
it's it's amazing for your body and your
mind to realize that you're okay
without food you'll be okay you know
you're not gonna die and then a
spiritual component like there's a
reason
almost every major religion has some
type of fasting in it you know in the
mormon religion uh we grew up fasting uh
one 24 hours uh a month like one day a
month you fast for 24 hours and i hated
it as a kid so you know my perception of
what
fasting was was like uh this sucks but
there's a spiritual component like being
able to be more in tune with your body
and spirit
uh without having food to distract you
um is really powerful and i feel like it
can uh be spiritually uplifting you know
whether you're religious or not just
being more in tune with your body and in
your spirit as well like you you are a
soul i do really believe that and i
think fasting is a way to tap into that
and um so there's a physical mental and
spiritual component to fasting that i
just love and so for me i will i
intermittent fast almost every day and
then extended fasting i do kind of as a
cleanse maybe two to three times a year
and
all it ranges anywhere from three days
on the lower end to
um you know i've done a seven day fast
before but i'll admit for me already
being really lean that was kind of that
was kind of tough like day seven was
really hard for me and this was
during the winter in utah and my body
temperature drops so i get freezing cold
and then it was during christmas season
so there we were going to christmas
parties and there was food everywhere
i'm like okay next time i do this like i
gotta be like by myself
you know um but for me my sweet spot is
four days
to end water only so i'll do water and
just a little bit of salt right and
that's what i found works best for me
yeah it's really
i think it's super important for people
to
at least give fasting a try because so
my bias is living forever so the only
thing that's been shown across every
species to elongate lifespan is caloric
restriction and when you realize it
seems studies suggest that you get all
of the benefits of chronic caloric
restriction by doing um just even
intermittent fasting where it's a timed
window so you're taking the same number
of calories but you do it over a
condensed period of time yeah um that is
i think super important for people to
experiment with and look at and see what
kind of effect that is i think there's a
balance too because i think there's you
know quantity of life but there's also
quality of life it's not like you need
to fast and just eat at a calorie
deficit deficit for the rest of your
life like you know enjoy life too you
know have some wine you know have a beer
every once in a while and pizza like you
know but you know when and and when it
feels right to you can i confess
something yeah go ahead i had ice cream
this weekend you did it ice cream
amazing real ice cream realizing not
like halo top okay ice cream cold stone
wow and my wife and i just decided to
like make it we we've been working so
much that just have a reconnect weekend
and to do something fun yeah and she was
like you know you game for this and it
was rad yeah and it was yeah it was a
super good reminder that while i think
you can obviously get yourself into
trouble if you're not in control of that
but for me i probably cheat on my diet
three times a year so it's like i'm i
don't have an addictive personality
first of all so like that's not a real
thing for me um
but
dipping into it and like you said and
i've heard you talk wonderfully about
this like you said something like oh if
i'm at my mom's house and this christmas
and she makes you know some special
bread thing i'm going to have the
special bread exactly
and i i love that talk about that like
how can
people um because i here's what makes me
sad eating ice cream is awesome yeah
being alone by yourself in the corner of
the ice cream shop shoveling it down and
not making eye contact with people and
you're clearly not having fun like that
breaks my heart every time i see yeah
it's similar to kind of consuming
alcohol like are you by yourself
celebrating by or are you celebrating by
yourself are you kind of down on
yourself and you're eating your emotions
with that substance whether it's ice
cream or alcohol or drugs whatever it is
like what's your intention behind it for
me those types of moments with whether
it's alcohol or whether it's certain
types of foods are
meant to be you know a bonding thing
with with family or friends or a
positive experience
and yes i think in that situation if
your intention is just i'm eating i'm
stressed out so and no one's watching so
now's the time to do it that's where i
think that's uh
a behavior that needs to be worked on
right and i wish it was as simple as
saying well just don't do it right like
you wouldn't tell a drug addict like hey
stop doing drugs what's wrong with you
it's not that hard just put it down
it's similar for some people right where
they're you know eating their emotions
and they're so ashamed by it that they
you know have to do it by themselves and
it's sad and i feel like that's where
that self-worth comes in and the need
for
support system and accountability come
into play and
um it's not like a black and it's not
black and white there's so many gray
areas a lot of it has to do with trauma
or self-worth from a very young age and
now we're trying to tell people like
yeah you're beautiful you're worth it
and just change your behavior overnight
i wish it was that easy but just realize
that it's constant battle it's never
ending you're always going to fight it
for the rest of your life but
just realize that you're worth it to
keep fighting that's my message that's
my hope for people do you think that
there are universal recommendations that
everyone should be doing if your diet is
con
is mostly consists of cinnamon toast
crunch and mountain dew like mine was
you know all these processed foods which
look i'll be honest with you they're
convenient they're affordable they're
super they're cheap compared to you know
a salad or whatever and they taste
really good they really do and there's
they are they can be very addictive for
some people
if you're eating real food most of the
time and you're moving your body every
single day biking or swimming or zumba
dancing ecstatic dance
whatever it is moving your body right
just getting out there moving and eating
real food you know no one
it's super easy to eat
20 cookies right like if you're like
stressed out and you're having these
baked goods in your house but no one's
gonna eat sit down eat 10 20 avocados
right
i mean i've never seen anyone do that
because they're stressed out and i think
if we could just get people to focus on
the process
of the habits that make a healthy
lifestyle rather than the results
then i think the results will take care
of themselves you have two daughters how
do you deal with food and them i mean
especially knowing how tasty processed
foods are
that's a great question i always ask
other parents when they come on my
podcast like what works for them because
it's different for each family for each
kid
because i see both ways of being overly
strict right and not letting them touch
a process carbohydrate or any refined
sugar
and then i know that the moment they're
with grandma or whether at the friend's
house on a play day or they're at school
where other kids are eating candy and
they can't
there's moments where i can't control
what they're going to eat but when
they're with me i try and control what
they eat and teach them about why we eat
certain foods like why are we eating
vegetables it's not a punishment right
i'm not making you do it
it's there's a reason i'm you know we're
supposed to be eating vegetables and
here's why so from my girls are seven
and nine and they know
what uh broccoli is they know what
cauliflower is and you know we go
grocery shopping together i help uh i
have them help chop food and prepare the
food so they're in there in the kitchen
things like micronutrients i mean they
don't understand that so basically and
this is what i do is i say hey on the
inside of us there's a lot of good guys
there's a lot of bad guys and when we
eat vegetables our good guys get
stronger and they can beat up the bad
guys but when we're eating junk food the
bad guys they get strong and they beat
up the good guys and that's when we feel
sick that's kind of what i tell them and
it seems to work um but you know i'll be
honest with you we do have treats every
once well but i'll get them like halo
top ice cream or something like that or
i'll make them a keto cookie and they
don't really know you know
but then they're with grandma this week
for example in in idaho and i know she's
going to give them
you know juice with high fructose corn
syrup and that kills me but i can't
micromanage every single person that
comes into my daughter's life so
don't beat yourself up just do the best
you can with what you have it's not
gonna be perfect they're gonna you know
have access to this food at some point
in time but if you can control what they
eat when you're with them then that's
all you can control right and i don't
have the energy to micromanage every
single
food piece of food that goes in into
their mouth
all right before i ask my last question
where can these guys find you online
easy
fit number two fat number two fit that's
my book it's my podcast it's my website
all my social media handles i try and
keep it consistent and try and keep you
guys entertained on social media
excellent and then my last question what
is one change that people could make to
their diet that would have the biggest
impact and i'll be cheeky and sneak in
and say and also what's one change that
they could make to have to their workout
routine that would have the biggest
impact gotcha so the number one thing
diet
diet wise is don't be afraid of healthy
fats
coconut oil avocados olives
implementing these healthier fats into
your diet just starting off with that
we've been been doing low fat for so
long i think just adding in healthy fats
can make a huge difference with people
feeling satiated and fuller longer
i think that's that's the the easiest
thing to do for people right and people
like butter and they like you know full
fat cheese and so
these types of healthy fats i think
could get would be an easy good start
as far as workout goes
the easiest thing would
would be to do interval training so get
your heart rate up to a very high level
whether it's walking up the stairs
walking uphill
running on a treadmill maybe let's say
you run for 30 seconds you get your
heart rate up whatever it is that you're
doing to get your heart rate up for 30
seconds that could be jumping jacks
right and then recovering for about 30
seconds and then repeating that for
about 10 minutes will give you the most
bang for your buck in my opinion nice
yeah thanks tom really appreciate it man
yeah my pleasure
guys
guys this one is one you are going to
have an absolute blast diving in and
discovering his whole notion of
vulnerability is strength that whole
side i don't see anybody else talking
about it the way that he's talking about
it and recognizing that the reason most
people
get addicted to food in the first place
because even if you want to say that
that is a fundamental reason that leads
people astray they get there for a
reason and it isn't just that it's
delicious it isn't just that it's
inexpensive those are both parts of it
but the big thing is most of us have
some sort of trauma some sort of thing
that we've been building up in our lives
negative stories about who we are
whether we're worthy of love whether
we can love ourselves
and that is the thing that's really
holding them back and not going in and
doing that work is why people struggle
and do self-sabotaging behavior and
because his own story has so much of
that in it and because he shares so raw
and so vulnerably it is that bridge that
he talks about between where you are and
where you want to get to the
non-judgmental
acceptance of a group that he's putting
people in and giving them that safe
space which is something that he talked
a lot about in this episode and i hope
that you guys were listening to that
because that is what many of you need
you need that safe space inside yourself
and you need that safe space with other
people that you can trust and his voice
is that voice in this industry and the
fact that he's also yoked doesn't hurt
so you know that he's at least been able
to do it once
which is really really extraordinary but
it's really the kindness that emanates
off of him it's the relatability it's
that he's extended
his own story out so that other people
can connect to something and see that
there's a lot more going on for him just
as there is for anybody else than what
you see on the outside and that is
extraordinary and that's why i think
he's such a special voice in this space
and he's been at it for a really long
time so he's got a lot of amazing
content that i think you guys will
benefit from and most importantly
because we were talking about this
before the camera started rolling now
there's so many of us out there that
have been doing this for years you get
to watch that person change so you can
even watch how his notions of what a
healthy diet and exercise are change and
evolve as he's changed and evolved it's
really really pretty extraordinary i
think you guys are going to love it all
right if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care
bye man
thank you guys so much for watching and
being a part of this community if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're going to get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential